Good to see you again.
You'll now be able to create
a matrix to represent
all the words in your vocabulary.
Each vector of your matrix will
correspond to one of the words.
Let me show you how you
can build this matrix.
The simplest way to represent
words as numbers is for
a given vocabulary to assign
a unique integer to each word.
For example, based on a vocabulary
of 1,000 basic English words,
you could assign the number 1
to the word a, 2 to able, and
so on up to 1000 for zebra.
While this numbering scheme is simple,
one of the problems is that
the order of the words,
alphabetical in this example, doesn't make
much sense from a semantic perspective.
For example, there is no reason why
happy should be assigned a greater
number than hand for instance or
a smaller one than zebra.
Instead of using a numerical
index to encode each word,
you can represent the words
using a column vector
where each element corresponds
to a word of the vocabulary.
Using the previous example with
a vocabulary of 1,000 words, each vector
would contain 1,000 elements and each row
would be labeled with one of the words.
You can now encode each word with a unique
column vector by putting a 1 in the row
that has the same label and
a 0 everywhere else.
For example, the word happy would be
represented as a vector with a 1 in
the row corresponding to happy and
zero in all of the other rows and
for all the other words in the vocabulary.
I'll call these vectors one-hot vectors
to distinguish them from other types
of vectors that you'll encounter.
You can consider words as
a categorical variable.
You can easily go from integers
to one-hot vectors and
back by simply mapping the words in the
rows to their corresponding row number.
In this way, happy,
word number 621 would be represented as
a one-hot vector with a 1 in row 621,
which corresponds to the word happy.
Conversely, the vector for
happy with a 1 in row 621 would
be represented by integer 621
which corresponds to happy.
One-hot vectors have an advantage over
using integers because one-hot vectors do
not imply any relationship
between any two words.
Each vector says the word is
either happy or it's not or
the word is either zebra or it's not.
However, one-hot vectors have two major
limitations for most NLP use cases.
For one, barring anything but
the simplest vocabulary,
these parts vectors are going to be huge.
This means that working with one-hot
vectors on a computer would require
a lot of space and processing time.
If your vectors are created with
English words, you could end up with
upwards of a million rows, one row for
each word in the English vocabulary.
Another limitation is that
this representation doesn't
carry the word's meaning.
For instance, if you attempt to
determine how similar two words
are by calculating the distance
between their one-hot vectors,
then you will always get the same
distance between any two pairs of words.
For example, using one-hot vectors,
the word happy is just as similar to the
word paper as it is to the word excited.
Intuitively, you would think that happy
is more similar to excited than it is
to paper.
This is where word embeddings come
into play as I'll explain next.